M-% runs the command query-replace (found in global-map), which is an
interactive compiled Lisp function in ‘replace.el’.

It is bound to M-%, <menu-bar> <edit> <replace> <query-replace>.

(query-replace FROM-STRING TO-STRING &optional DELIMITED START END
BACKWARD REGION-NONCONTIGUOUS-P)

Replace some occurrences of FROM-STRING with TO-STRING.
As each match is found, the user must type a character saying
what to do with it.  For directions, type C-h at that time.

In Transient Mark mode, if the mark is active, operate on the contents
of the region.  Otherwise, operate from point to the end of the buffer’s
accessible portion.

In interactive use, the prefix arg (non-nil DELIMITED in
non-interactive use), means replace only matches surrounded by
word boundaries.  A negative prefix arg means replace backward.

Use M-n to pull the last incremental search string to the minibuffer
that reads FROM-STRING, or invoke replacements from
incremental search with a key sequence like ‘C-s C-s M-%’
to use its current search string as the string to replace.

Matching is independent of case if ‘case-fold-search’ is non-nil and
FROM-STRING has no uppercase letters.  Replacement transfers the case
pattern of the old text to the new text, if ‘case-replace’ and
‘case-fold-search’ are non-nil and FROM-STRING has no uppercase
letters.  (Transferring the case pattern means that if the old text
matched is all caps, or capitalized, then its replacement is upcased
or capitalized.)

Ignore read-only matches if ‘query-replace-skip-read-only’ is non-nil,
ignore hidden matches if ‘search-invisible’ is nil, and ignore more
matches using ‘isearch-filter-predicate’.

If ‘replace-lax-whitespace’ is non-nil, a space or spaces in the string
to be replaced will match a sequence of whitespace chars defined by the
regexp in ‘search-whitespace-regexp’.

If ‘replace-char-fold’ is non-nil, matching uses character folding,
i.e. it ignores diacritics and other differences between equivalent
character strings.

Fourth and fifth arg START and END specify the region to operate on.

To customize possible responses, change the bindings in ‘query-replace-map’.

[back]
